In 1825, a wealthy man by the name of Abel Gower purchased an estate on the eastern border of the Welsh county of Pembrokeshire. Taking inspiration from the nearby oaks, this estate would come to be known as “Clunderwen”, a composite of the Welsh word “Clun”, meaning meadow, and “Derwen”, meaning oak. As the estate and its surrounding lands developed, there came a point half a century later at which the local community began to find itself in need of a name – and so, owing to the influence of the family, the area came to adopt the name of the Gower estate. This is why, two hundred years after Abel signed the documents that ascribed him his property rights, some one-thousand people now claim a hometown of “Clynderwen”.
:p>In 1897, “Clynderwen” would then be marked down in the birth certificate of one Griffith Wynne Williams, who would continue to live there until he left for a boarding school in London. On completion of his secondary studies in 1923, Griffith Wynne would leave the Welsh oaks behind for good, moving to the United States to attend what is now known as the Hartford International University for Religion and Peace. By 1929, Griffith had reached the end of his educational pursuits with the completion of a doctoral degree in Psychology at the University of Wisconsin. He would go on to teach at Rutgers University, where he would earn the 1958 award of the Society of Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis.
:p>It was this award – and the published research which had afforded him the honor – that would ultimately allow him to meet the notability requirement of the New York Times Obit desk, which wrote, approved, and published his obituary on the 26th of April, 1972. Griffith Wynne was survived by his widow Dr. Hannah Stiglitz Williams, his daughter Mona Brown, his son Gresham, three brothers, and three grandchildren. He lived to the age of 75, passing one hundred forty seven years after Abel Gower bought a house surrounded by aging oaks in the Welsh countryside.
:p>Ten years before he died, Griffith had submitted a manuscript to the International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis, which would go on to publish it in the third issue of its eleventh volume. In it, he would coin the term “Highway Hypnosis”, describing the following phenomenon: 
