## Vesper Opens

I dream of primrose mornings and apricot tea in the afternoon, of life in quiet New England, as you see it on Gilmore Girls or Rooster, where idyllic small town America sits frozen in a time before I knew the words “Terrorist” and “CPA”. This dream of mine is a very convenient one, wherein my work day is largely split between composing poetry at my leisure, writing dense, esoteric novels at the behest of a desperate publisher eager to profit off my prose, and teaching small classrooms full of attractive young people at a prestigious institution. It’s a dream in which I never think about the cost of things, and my parents don’t look older every time that I see them, and where I only think of politicians in a tense of the distant past, more in-joke and faint sign of newspaper-reading than anything resembling concern.
:p>But that is not my life; it is the bedlam fantasy of a mind engulfed in pains and searing bitters, one shaped by a fury projected and a fear of inadequacy generations in the making. My real life, the one where autumn leaves litter streets in ugly wet heaps and the snow is always is always gray, is the product of a father slighted and untherapized, a mother beaten by the cruel winds of life and the stranglehold of commitments made in better days. I am the sullen child of a family of conventional losers, whose every semblance of success or glamor carried with it asterisks of “just you wait” or “soon enough”, or worst of all, “dad promises”. My family tree and the childhood it begot were less heraldry of survival and history inherited than they were menageries of parental deficiency and love more so performed than expressed.
:p>It ought be fitting then, that I too fall short of all things owed to that unencumbered innocence, upon which is thrust membership in this affair. I’ll say it plainly: I am dumb as a rock, and I don’t speak quite so well unless the letters are written, and though I’m not ugly, I’m closer to that than I am to pretty, and it takes me much work not to look foreign among all of the privileged normals to which the finer bits of daily life appear to come with such enviable ease. I cry often; in the middle of the night, even without too immediate a reason. I don’t love much, if anything, about myself, and I carry in my heart the hot shame of many moments and mistakes I’ve made in which the cost of lessons learned were not my own to bear. Truthfully, my wealth of failures is so immense that though I know I must appear a most miserable bitch, and my moans and whines drag on forever; I assure you that deep inside, in my most private understanding, I only say these things in this way because it helps me feel like I’m exaggerating — like its weight is imagined, and like my many ills are but the narcissistic drivel of a woman blind with privilege and eager to paint herself a victim bereft of the agency to change the course of life.
Whatever though the case may be, I sit here driving through the snow towards a small town at the foot of a mountain not because I’m happy, but because I was so sad — so sad, that I felt like maybe I was owed a great, big someone at which to yell about injustices and however-could-yous, a someone with whom I could lodge complaints about the architecture of my life, its peeling paint, and the cold draft which carries through its corridors whenever I dare think of any of the many things which supposedly mattered in life, such as the future or the past, or the nature of the times which play out in-between. 
:p>I’d been raised a catholic in theory, an opportunist in practice — it was a label more than anything, a costume mom and dad would make me wear whenever social matters called for it; like when we rented from an old religious woman, or when dad really needed to curry favor with the mayor and his pastor son. Still, the odd verse and broader framework both stuck alike in my mind when I broke down the other year, and the time before that too. I don’t think the spook of it ever quite really made sense to me — the idea that there’s a thing such that its nature is entirely unlike all the other stuff I’d ever seen about, and furthermore, more fatally, the grandiosity of God and heaven, and all the angels too, had never quite felt right to me, who thought it grotesque that God Almighty and his angels would let man paint his realm and kind in so splendorous a coat while children starve on the steppe and calves are born to mothers that bear numbers and not names. Still, it’s in the way of life that you meet times when your heart breaks just enough and your mind sighs with such complete defeat that the hypocrisies of holy men and their books do not compare to the comforts of their answers and that gentle light at the end of a dark tunnel, and so when times got hard, I’d kneel by my bedside and ask of God a mercy and a grace the kind of which I’d never known in life.
:p>The line of lights on I-90 East grows long and red ahead, and I eye the map on my phone screen while doing mental maths and pondering the ill stretch of road that yet awaits — past Taconic Lake, between Berlin and Maxima Electric, passing an Elderberry farm and East Hollow Cemetery before crossing into the Bay state to round Sheep Hill and come to stop at the motel — halfway between Adams and North Adams, we’ll be sleeping our last common night in Zylonite, Massachusetts. Best let Len know I’ll be there later than I’d thought, blame construction round about in Brunswick, on the outskirts of Albany.