Come to, and you take a moment to look ahead. You feel something. It's warm, humid, and you're wet. There's music about – something rhythmic, instrumental. Oceanic notes, you wonder? No – more of a modern take on Ainu folk music, maybe. You feel the depth of each beat, each thump, like stomping in your chest. You hear nature somewhere else, closeby. The music shifts to a swanky female voice singing about human relationships. You feel motion, and walk through an open sliding door. You don't know where you are, but there's urine streaming into a toilet, and you feel relief, feel yourself, and your essence being drained, your body breathing. There is still something foundationally organic about you: you breathe, you seek warmth, and some semblance of relieving yourself remains even in these few artifacts. You realize that you know this feeling, and recognize the microdose.
:p>When next you think, you stand by the pool. You look at the shimmering green-blue hues of the water. Some thought of humanity slinks about your mind, and you feel a memory forming, encoded all the firmer for the frustration of its incoherence. You breathe twice – by and to yourself, alone in your body, and all at once, together, through the greater physicality of the natural environment you exist within, embody, are a part of. The interconnectedness is familiar, but the mushrooms are too pleasant: you push worry away.
:p>You step into the water, the music turns to a young male voice singing soft, digestible existentialisms, and you float underneath green palm leaves, starved yellow, kissed by the sun where it can reach, and blessed by the shade where it does not. Float along, feel the water, transparent streams and currents touching, tickling, brushing skin and muscle. The hero dose speaks to you: Be unsure of whether you control your arm, hide the scars on your left, own the ones on your right. It's a soft chlorophyll river, and the chain-link fence of sense has gone and melted, left you free like cattle-mustang in the plains, bathing in the golden lights shone on by a historic sun. The colors are pretty, you feel, and give yourself to that nirvana of non-logic.
:p>Knots in your chest, cosmic sparks sprinkle the dark void all about your body. A seldom respite from the torrent of experience, you know better than to let it pass you by. Minutes, then hours, and soon whatever parts of the time-keeping mechanism within your mind fades away, and you experience an eternity of bliss.
