## Part I

Dorchester’s beauty hid in the dialectic dance between urban stink and poetic privy. Like the browning leaves of Saint Marks announcing the second bloom, or the pissy winds of the ocean carrying the scent of its roses to Peabody Square. There was much to hate about the place, but I’d always found my comforts in it. In a town no one cared to walk, I’d wander past the old Victorians and romanticize imagined lives as the kind of boy whose family had the money for a house in the city. Not that fate would have it. In the end, my father died a member of the renter class, and our systems do not afford single mothers homes of their own.
:p>That’s what drove me to computer science. It was a lucrative field with ample pay and opportunity alike – or so I’d been told. If nothing else, at least it sounded future-proof, and so I chose the major with hopes of one day repaying my mother’s endless sacrifices. I was so eager then, so desperate to do right by her, that I didn’t think twice about taking out loans to go to school. In my naivety, I think I might even have seen a twisted nobility in mortgaging my future for a chance to lift my mother out of poverty.
:p>It figures that when my time came, the market would be oversaturated with a dozen-million other sons that had thought the exact same thing. It figures too that the richest companies in the world would all decide right then and there to fire people by the thousands. Let alone that, just six months before my graduation, billionaires would pay millionaires to build thinking machines that could do my job – and for a fraction of the price in power bills. Fuck the planet, and fuck me, I guess.
:p>Once the loan servicers came knocking, my options were limited: Either I work my ass off in an Amazon warehouse and pray that I find a job before my six month grace period lapsed, or I enter grad school and buy myself four to five years of time before facing the same problem, only this time armed with a doctorate. Between the PhD stipends beating Amazon’s hourly pay and the thousands of newly unemployed senior developers with fancy names on their resumes, grad school struck me as the wiser choice. It’s a funny irony that I’d end up in a program specializing in artificial intelligence. Or maybe it’s a bitter one. Ever since mom’s hair greyed, my heart’s been too calloused to tell.
:p>What definitely is funny though, is that for how famously difficult grad school is said to be, it sure comes with a lot of downtime. Once you pass your qualifying exams, the degree is mostly a matter of research – that is, your main requirement for graduation is to carve out a new divot of human knowledge from the ineffable domain of the unknown. That takes a lot of work, but it also takes a lot of sitting around waiting for a process to finish, a model to train, or an idea to blink into existence. Ideally, that idle time is taken up by copious amounts of reading scholarly literature, or traveling to conferences, or tinkering in workshops. In practice, however, there’s only so much you can read before your brain needs a break, and there’s only so much money you can justify spending to travel around the country and show people projects they can just as well read about in a journal. Sooner or later, you’ll need to find another way to pass the time, and if, like me, you’re haunted by the ghosts of every dime your parents ever spent on you, then you’ll do your best to make sure that you spend that time productively.
:p>That’s how it came to be that I’d send emails around my university’s various departments asking whether anyone was interested in collaborating with my particular kind of PhD student. I’d seen that kind of thing lead to start-ups and publications in the past, so I figured it was worth a shot. It turns out that free labor – particularly of the skilled kind – is highly appreciated in underfunded academic circles, so I had plenty of replies to sort through. Most of them were from business and marketing folk with really innovative ideas™. Some were from biologists looking for ways to automatically detect specific kinds of cells in videos and images. A few had come from the arts, which had apparently seen a surge of high-concept AI-powered exhibitions. None of these actually interested me though. These were all things that humans could do just fine as-is. I was looking for an opportunity to do something new, something that could not be done without my help. Just when I’d been about to settle, I got the ping notifying me of an email sent to me by Dr. Hollinger.
:p>As I’ve come to learn, Irene Hollinger was a postdoctoral researcher in the Department of Anthropology, but if you’d ask her, she’d call herself a historian of the Near East specializing in Ancient Mesopotamia. She’d claimed to have acquired a textual artifact wrapped in a clay enclosure that could not be broken without jeopardizing the integrity of the text within. A team abroad had apparently subjected the item to scans that could penetrate the enclosure, but it would require specialized computer models to resolve that data into translatable text. She knew how to sell a graduate student on the idea: Between the technological challenge and the suspected significance of the enclosure’s contents, the project was sure to yield multiple publications, and in my world, those translate to better odds on the job market.
:p>Thinking back on it now, I have to wonder how I ever missed the causal throughline fate had drawn upon my life. Long before I replied to that email, before the ancient cities, the cancer and the irises, before mom died in that fire and before Irene; back in the Dorchester days, when I walked the streets dreaming of old houses – memories of piss and roses had already set in stone the unmaking of a miracle.
