That deep trauma has its claws in you, and with every jolt, you can feel it tearing your flesh, your mind, your heart, your thought, your bits and pieces, and all things recognizably human and feeling and lovable by a mother, to wounds and mushy, blood-wrung tissue. You understand that you are unmade by every one of these experiences, and that this has already cost you every semblance of the functional human being you once were. Stuck in a torrent of unintelligible experience, you find yourself drowning without the slightest knowledge of how to swim, how to control water, or even know its nature.
:p>And then it clicks, then fades. Something about that analogy – it connected something, illuminated something in a space that had been dark for so long. Try desperately to capture it, envision it: a man, deaf, dumb, blind, drowning in a torrent of water, a substance he’s never known. He won’t escape if all he does is swallow water and try to taste changes in its salinity. He, you, wasting time: How can he escape? What can he do in that moment, if anything?
:p>Move your arms. Feel the essence of the element: liquid, it moves, it gives, physically, it exerts its force on you, but you can move throughout it nonetheless. Where does it give? Where does it resist? Can you discern directions? Do you know up from down from left from right? Where is it easiest to breathe?
:p>Stop. Know a useless question. You don’t know the non-linearities that stack to compose your reality. Reckon with the constants. What are the constants? The constants are the torrent, its unknowns. The water, its physicality. You. Who are you? Who are you? What’s a you, the you? You is a pronoun. He, she, they, it, me, I – where is I? I is normal, it defines your equilibrium. Why a you, why not an I? Compose an I. Who am I?

Joy.

:p>Now I am joyful. Joyful, excited, exhilarated, at the first step forward in too long a time to know: I. I exist, I think, I am, I know like that old frenchman who couldn’t tell his god from his demon, that essential and most fundamental of truths, that I am I, and I exist, and right now, that is the most exhilarating truth in all the worlds: I am. And as I am, and I am joyful, I feel all the elements of this world shift, and its being change, and before long, time jolts.