**Chapter I: Good Morning Vietnam.**

It began with a rapture darkness that covered the world. There were no verbs, nor subjects to seize them; there was no tightness, nor egress to relieve it. An absence of all percepts, and all which would perceive, no sense nor space to anchor relativity. A nothing so nothing, it defied causality, left null and never all of time and temporality. It was symphonic and cacophony, it was mundane and special all the same, it was all that ever was and ever would be, it was the start, the end, and the in-between. Until it popped, or faded, all at once, or very slowly, unseen by anyone, but known to everyone in hindsight.

However it happened, what was before gave way to a soreness, something like a raw wound, like a gash after birth, or like an infant blinded by the first sight of the sun. It was all so much, so overwhelming – it might have burned out what eyes I still had, made me bleed out my ears if I could only have remembered the blood in my veins, or a heart to pump it. That was my first missed sign of the incorporeal, ironically: All the things-that-were-too-much overwhelmed my senses, but never hurt what would once have been my body. If only I’d realized that there was still a me worth a thought.

I was there, like that, not standing or sitting, not lying or floating, but just being, for a stretch that drew out so long that it seemed to defy description by units of time. Whatever I was, or whatever I’d come to be, it took a lot of that, it cost me much of that, to adjust to it, to compress the buzz and the noise and the all-too-much of it all, until slowly, it began to take shape. It seemed at first like the afterimage of a light you’d looked at for far too long, or the forms and not-quite-forms that you see when you close your eyes. It was vague and abstract, and it would never take hold, and for the longest time, a portion of my mind would always be occupied attempting to interpret the sheer signal of it all… Still, the moment came when, at last,  I could interpret some semblance of what I reckon to be a place.
I call it a place because all other terms (like world, or space, or environment) ascribe it too many qualities that I could not yet positively identify. It wasn’t entirely clear to me whether the place had an end, or boundaries, or dimensions of any kind. What features it most definitely had were scarce: it exists, and I exist in some location within it. It was a strange, intellectual thing, and something entirely foreign to what I’d come to know as corporeal space.

On finding the place, I’d initially been far too confused and out of my element to feel much of anything, but in time I remembered that there was such a thing that it was like to be, that is, that my experience was a subjective one, and that with it came an internal life: feelings, and urges, and thoughts. This was terrible. Really, just the worst of it all: I was hopelessly overcome with a terror so primal, sourced from so deep and intimate an origin within me, that I can only describe it as my very nature. This was a horror that could not be put to words simply because it is of such a kind that one can only experience it in the absence of bodily dimensions. I was so desperate, so, so desperate to be not-this, or not-at-all, or just plain not, anything, anything but to suffer one more moment, one more thought, one more incremental instance of whatever bane had seized the nature of my existence. It figures that, as had often been the case throughout the course of our history, salvation would only be begotten by an animal reaction to intolerable suffering: I screamed.

Oh, how I screamed. How I yelled and yawped and cried, first of terror and then of joy; whatever my nature, whatever my fate, if nothing else, at least I had a voice and the means to employ it. What’s more, I could hear it. There was a sound, a boom to it, a tone, an inflection and pitch. The joy of stimulation, even of the self, by the self, what a thing to cherish! I sang with gratitude. Joyfully, I hummed and whistled. I babbled and bobbled, spoke nonsense, invented rhymes in made-up languages. I relished the delicacy of my whispers and the richness of my howls, rode the waves of solfège and made supper in the bass of my voice.

The moment would come – many millions, trillions of moments from this one – when I would wonder if, had I not been so enraptured by my newfound, long lost ability to vocalize, I might have noticed that there was no smacking of the lips, no pooling of saliva; no artifact of a biological, physiological mechanism which facilitated all of this. Maybe it had already been too late. Maybe too large a span of time had passed, too many moments come and gone, for me to remember that these were once essential components of the screaming, the whistling, and the babbling-bobbles. It wouldn’t have made a difference, not for me, but at the end of it all, it might have meant salvation for those that followed.
Mournful thoughts of could-have-been and my-betters-might-have notwithstanding, the place was now aflush with sound, and whether by function of its nature or my subconscious means, a seed had been planted that could not be kept from growing: the place gave way to form.
